consumer group offsets possible improvement (#53)
getdreams/kafka-backup: docs/offset_backup_issue.md

## Offset and message backup time discrepancies

### Problem description

> Currently, kafka-backup process  uses two different mechanism for backing up offsets and messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, kafka-backup process  uses two different mechanisms for backing up offsets and messages.
```

> Message backup utilizes sink connector mechanism and offsets are read from cluster via an administrative client for kafka cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Message backup utilizes sink connector mechanism but offsets are read from cluster via an administrative client for kafka cluster.
```

> This means that while messages are read continuously (though tey are saved in batches based on batch size and time), 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that while messages are read continuously (though they are saved in batches based on a batch size and time), 
```

the offsets are being written to S3 with scheduled time intervals.

> As a result, after restoration process information regarding offsets for consumer groups me may not be accurate if any of consumers where working after last offset backup ws created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result, when the restoration process is finished, information regarding offsets for consumer groups may not be accurate if any of consumers was still consuming messages after last offset backup was created.
```

That in  turn  would introduce a need to examin system logs, and all accessible data states to verify whether some of the messages had already been consumed.

### Possible improvement 

> There is another approach that could minimize risk of offsets and messages back-ups being out of sync.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is another approach that could minimize the risk of offsets and messages back-ups being out of sync.
```

> By implementing simple consumer that will read the internal topic ``__consumer_offsets`` we can get a similarly continuous image off offset commits as for messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By implementing a simple consumer that reads the internal topic ``__consumer_offsets`` we can get a similarly continuous image of offset commits as for messages.
```

The problems to overcome would be:

> - aggregating all consumer groups to single file per topic partition - this would probably lead to changing offset backup structure because we are preserving all offset history to allow restoring to point in time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- aggregating all consumer groups to a single file per topic partition - this would probably lead to changing offset backup structure because we are preserving the whole offsets history to allow restoring to a point in time
```

- under the heavy load with many consumers probably few nodes would be required to process all messages

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``__consumer_offsets`` is an internal kafka topic and its format may change which could break the backup if the library is not updated.
```
